Adding a note for Getting Started with PyTorch on Intel GPUs (#127872)
pytorch/pytorch: docs/source/notes/get_start_xpu.rst

If the output is ``False``, ensure that you have Intel GPU in your system and correctly follow the `PyTorch Installation Prerequisites for Intel GPUs <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pytorch-prerequisites-for-intel-gpus.html>`_. Then, check that the PyTorch compilation is correctly finished.

Minimum Code Change
-------------------

If you are migrating code from ``cuda``, you would change references from ``cuda`` to ``xpu``. For example:

.. code-block::

   # CUDA CODE
   tensor = torch.tensor([1.0, 2.0]).to("cuda")

   # CODE for Intel GPU
   tensor = torch.tensor([1.0, 2.0]).to("xpu")

The following points outline the support and limitations for PyTorch with Intel GPU:

#. Both training and inference workflows are supported.
#. Both eager mode and ``torch.compile`` is supported.
#. Data types such as FP32, BF16, FP16, and Automatic Mixed Precision (AMP) are all supported.
#. Models that depend on third-party components, will not be supported until PyTorch v2.5 or later.

Examples
--------

This section contains usage examples for both inference and training workflows.
Inference Sample

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Author: done

.. note::
   The ``ONEAPI_ROOT`` is the folder you installed your ``intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev`` and  ``intel-pti-dev`` packages. Typically, it is located at ``/opt/intel/oneapi/`` or ``~/intel/oneapi/``.

Build from source
-----------------

Now we have all the required packages installed and environment acitvated. Use the following commands to install ``pytorch``, ``torchvision``, ``torchaudio`` by building from source. For more details, refer to official guides in `PyTorch from source <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch?tab=readme-ov-file#intel-gpu-support>`_, `Vision from source <https://github.com/pytorch/vision/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#development-installation>`_ and `Audio from source <https://pytorch.org/audio/main/build.linux.html>`_.

.. code-block::

   # Get PyTorch Source Code
   git clone --recursive https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch
   cd pytorch
   git checkout main # or checkout the specific release version >= v2.4
   git submodule sync
   git submodule update --init --recursive

   # Get required packages for compilation
   conda install cmake ninja
   pip install -r requirements.txt

   # Pytorch for Intel GPUs only support Linux platform for now.

>    # Install the required packages for pytorch compilation

Reviewer: I suggest the following change to address my concerns below. This would highlight few things:
1. That these packages (`intel::mkl-static intel::mkl-include`) are required for Intel CPUs optimal performance
2. That these packages are different packages vs. those which might seem the same packages installed via `sudo apt install intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev intel-pti-dev`
3. That these packages are in a way optional, pytorch might build w/o them, but suffice suboptimal performance on Intel CPUs
```suggestion
   # To achieve optimal performance on Intel CPUs, additionally install the following packages
```

Reviewer 2: `# Install the required packages for pytorch compilation for Intel CPU optimizations`  How's this change look?

Author: Hi @dvrogozh @jingxu10 , since it is a required package and also to mention it is for Intel CPU optimizations, I changed the comment to 
`Install the required packages for pytorch compilation with Intel CPU optimizations`  and marked this as resolved.

Author: Hi @dvrogozh , thanks a lot for your suggestions!
As we discussed, the mkl packages is a necessary package for CPU optimization, so we'd better leave it as a required packages.

Reviewer: From my opinion the comment gives misleading impression to the user and needs to change. I am not ok with this discussion marked as resolved and do not consider it as such.

Author: Hi @dvrogozh , what do you think we keep the required packages: `Install the required packages for pytorch compilation with Intel CPU optimizations.`

Pytorch 2.4: Getting Started on Intel GPU
=========================================

The support for Intel GPUs is released alongside PyTorch v2.4.

This release only supports build from source for Intel GPUs.

Hardware Prerequiste
--------------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Supported Hardware
     - Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series
   * - Supported OS
     - Linux

> Pytorch for Intel GPUs is compatible with Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series and Intel® Core™ Ultra Processors, and only support OS Linux with release 2.4.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PyTorch for Intel GPUs is compatible with Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series and Intel® Core™ Ultra Processors and only supports OS Linux with release 2.4.
```

Software Prerequisites
----------------------

> Install driver and required packages by following the `PyTorch Installation Prerequisites for Intel GPUs <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pytorch-prerequisites-for-intel-gpus.html>`_ to Get Started.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a prerequisite, install the driver and required packages by following the `PyTorch Installation Prerequisites for Intel GPUs <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pytorch-prerequisites-for-intel-gpus.html>`_.
```

Set up Environment
------------------

> Before you begin, you need to set up the environment. This can be done by sourcing the setvars.sh script provided by the ``intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev`` and  ``intel-pti-dev`` packages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before you begin, you need to set up the environment. This can be done by sourcing the ``setvars.sh`` script provided by the ``intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev`` and  ``intel-pti-dev`` packages.
```

.. code-block::

   source ${ONEAPI_ROOT}/setvars.sh

> **Note**: the ONEAPI_ROOT is the folder you installed your ``intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev`` and  ``intel-pti-dev`` packages, usually it is ``/opt/intel/oneapi/`` or ``~/intel/oneapi/``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. note::
   The ``ONEAPI_ROOT`` is the folder you installed your ``intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev`` and  ``intel-pti-dev`` packages. Typically, it is located at ``/opt/intel/oneapi/`` or ``~/intel/oneapi/``.
```

Build from source
-----------------

> Now we have all the required packages installed and environment acitvated. Use the following command lines to install pytorch, torchvision, torchaudio by building from source. For details refer to official guides in `pytorch from source <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch?tab=readme-ov-file#intel-gpu-support>`_, `vision from source <https://github.com/pytorch/vision/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#development-installation>`_ and `audio from source <https://pytorch.org/audio/main/build.linux.html>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now we have all the required packages installed and environment acitvated. Use the following commands to install ``pytorch``, ``torchvision``, ``torchaudio`` by building from source. For more details, refer to official guides in `PyTorch from source <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch?tab=readme-ov-file#intel-gpu-support>`_, `Vision from source <https://github.com/pytorch/vision/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#development-installation>`_ and `Audio from source <https://pytorch.org/audio/main/build.linux.html>`_.
```

   conda install intel::mkl-static intel::mkl-include

   # (optional) If using torch.compile with inductor/triton, install the matching version of triton
   # Run from the pytorch directory after cloning
   # For Intel GPU support, please explicitly `export USE_XPU=1` before running command.
   USE_XPU=1 make triton

   # If you would like to compile PyTorch with new C++ ABI enabled, then first run this command:
   export _GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI=1

   # pytorch build from source
   export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=${CONDA_PREFIX:-"$(dirname $(which conda))/../"}
   python setup.py develop
   cd ..

   # (optional) If using torchvison.
   # Get torchvision Code
   git clone https://github.com/pytorch/vision.git
   cd vision
   git checkout main # or specific version
   python setup.py develop
   cd ..

   # (optional) If using torchaudio.
   # Get torchaudio Code
   git clone https://github.com/pytorch/audio.git
   cd audio
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   git checkout main # or specific version
   git submodule sync
   git submodule update --init --recursive
   python setup.py develop
   cd ..

Check availability for Intel GPU
-------------------

> **Note**\ : Make sure the environment is properly set up by following `Environment Set up <#set-up-environment>`_ before running the code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. note::
   Make sure the environment is properly set up by following `Environment Set up <#set-up-environment>`_ before running the code.
```

To check if your Intel GPU is available, you would typically use the following code:

.. code-block::

   import torch
   torch.xpu.is_available()  # torch.xpu is the API for Intel GPU support

> If the output is ``False``, please ensure that you have Intel GPU in your system and correctly follow the `PyTorch Installation Prerequisites for Intel GPUs <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pytorch-prerequisites-for-intel-gpus.html>`_ and check that the pytorch compilation is correctly finished.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the output is ``False``, ensure that you have Intel GPU in your system and correctly follow the `PyTorch Installation Prerequisites for Intel GPUs <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pytorch-prerequisites-for-intel-gpus.html>`_. Then, check that the PyTorch compilation is correctly finished.
```

Minimum Code Change
-------------------

> If you are migrating code from ``cuda``, you would change references from ``cuda`` to ``xpu``:
> 
> For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are migrating code from ``cuda``, you would change references from ``cuda`` to ``xpu``. For example:
```

.. code-block::

   # CUDA CODE
   tensor = torch.tensor([1.0, 2.0]).to("cuda")

   # CODE for Intel GPU
   tensor = torch.tensor([1.0, 2.0]).to("xpu")

The following points outline the support and limitations for PyTorch with Intel GPU:

> #. Both Training and inference workflows are supported.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Both training and inference workflows are supported.
```

#. Both eager mode and ``torch.compile`` is supported.
#. Data types such as FP32, BF16, FP16, and Automatic Mixed Precision (AMP) are all supported.
#. Models that depend on third-party components, will not be supported until PyTorch v2.5 or later.

Examples

> --------
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
--------

This section contains usage examples for both inference and training workflows.
```

Inference Sample

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here is a few inference workflow examples.

```

   model.eval()
   data = torch.rand(1, 3, 224, 224)

   #################### code changes #################
   model = model.to("xpu")
   data = data.to("xpu")
   #################### code changes #################

   with torch.no_grad():
       d = torch.rand(1, 3, 224, 224)
       ############################# code changes #####################
       d = d.to("xpu")
       # set dtype=torch.bfloat16 for BF16
       with torch.autocast(device_type="xpu", dtype=torch.float16, enabled=True):
       ############################# code changes #####################
           model(data)

   print("Execution finished")

Inference with ``torch.compile``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block::

   import torch
   import torchvision.models as models

   model = models.resnet50(weights="ResNet50_Weights.DEFAULT")
   model.eval()
   data = torch.rand(1, 3, 224, 224)
   ITERS = 10

   ######## code changes #######
   model = model.to("xpu")
   data = data.to("xpu")
   ######## code changes #######

   model = torch.compile(model)
   for i in range(ITERS):
       with torch.no_grad():
           model(data)

   print("Execution finished")

Training Sample
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Here is a few training workflow examples.

```

> 

Reviewer: Did you add an empy line in purpose?

Author: Not in purpose, I will remove it

Author: removed

Pytorch 2.4: Getting Started on Intel GPU
=========================================

The support for Intel GPUs is released alongside PyTorch v2.4.

This release only supports build from source for Intel GPUs.

Hardware Prerequiste
--------------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Supported Hardware
     - Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series
   * - Supported OS
     - Linux

Pytorch for Intel GPUs is compatible with Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series and Intel® Core™ Ultra Processors, and only support OS Linux with release 2.4.

> Software Prerequiste
> --------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software Prerequisites
----------------------
```

Install driver and required packages by following the `PyTorch Installation Prerequisites for Intel GPUs <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pytorch-prerequisites-for-intel-gpus.html>`_ to Get Started.

Set up Environment
------------------

Before you begin, you need to set up the environment. This can be done by sourcing the setvars.sh script provided by the ``intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev`` and  ``intel-pti-dev`` packages.

.. code-block::

>    source ${ONEAPI_ROOT}/setvars.sh

Reviewer: I think this also needs to be mentioned in top level readme: https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch?tab=readme-ov-file#intel-gpu-support

Author: Hi @rivergold , please help on update in top level readme.

Author: Hi @riverliuintel, please help update in top level readme

> **Note**\ : the ONEAPI_ROOT is the folder you installed your ``intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev`` and  ``intel-pti-dev`` packages, usually it is /opt/intel/oneapi/ or ~/intel/oneapi/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: the ONEAPI_ROOT is the folder you installed your ``intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev`` and  ``intel-pti-dev`` packages, usually it is ``/opt/intel/oneapi/`` or ``~/intel/oneapi/``.
```

Build from source
-----------------

> Now we have all the required packages installed and environment acitvated. Follow the following command to install pytorch, torchvision, torchaudio by building from source. Refer to official guide in `pytorch from source <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch?tab=readme-ov-file#intel-gpu-support>`_\ , `vision from source <https://github.com/pytorch/vision/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#development-installation>`_ and `audio from source <https://pytorch.org/audio/main/build.linux.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we have all the required packages installed and environment acitvated. Use the following command lines to install pytorch, torchvision, torchaudio by building from source. For details refer to official guides in `pytorch from source <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch?tab=readme-ov-file#intel-gpu-support>`_, `vision from source <https://github.com/pytorch/vision/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#development-installation>`_ and `audio from source <https://pytorch.org/audio/main/build.linux.html>`_.
```

.. code-block::

   # Get PyTorch Source Code
   git clone --recursive https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch
   cd pytorch
   git checkout main # or checkout the specific release version >= v2.4
   git submodule sync
   git submodule update --init --recursive

   # Get required packages for compilation
   conda install cmake ninja
   pip install -r requirements.txt

   # Pytorch for Intel GPUs only support Linux platform for now.
   # Install the required packages for pytorch compilation

>    conda install intel::mkl-static intel::mkl-include

Reviewer: emmm. This is really unexpected! First, you noted above that we just installed all prerequisite environment and now, all of the sudden, user needs to install yet-few-other intel packages from **different** source. Secondly, isn't mkl included into the oneAPI set user installs as prerequisite? and isn't it pulled automatically by pytorch as submodule?

In any case, I should note that I never did this step myself and I was able to build pytorch with XPU support. Hence, I highly doubt this step is actually needed. I also should note that using conda environment  might be recommended, but should not be required. How to install these packages in non-conda environment?

Author: Hi @EikanWang @riverliuintel @jingxu10 , do we still need    conda install intel::mkl-static intel::mkl-include  in the compilation steps?

Author: Hi @dvrogozh , this mkl package is for PyTorch CPU optimization, not related to XPU, but it is a essential step in building from source part.

Reviewer 4: @dvrogozh , these packages are required for CPU as the XPU wheel package supports both CPU and GPU.

Reviewer: Consider my setup, please. I don't use conda and install for Ubuntu 22.04. I am following [1] to install oneAPI dependencies and intel drivers. Now, I build pytorch for XPU and it builds and works for me. I really do not understand why `conda install intel::mkl-static intel::mkl-include` step is needed! Moreover, to me doing this step directly contradicts some aspects of the setup I observe. The point is that it seems I do have MKL which I guess is coming as a dependency from `sudo apt install intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev intel-pti-dev`. Thus a question - why do I need to install yet-another MKL thru conda? and whether there will be any conflicts?

And to add yet another dimension to all of that. Do you really using MKL in pytorch or you are using oneDNN. Or you are using both? These are different libraries:
* https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDNN
* https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneMKL
Note that additional confusion here comes from some renames and branch out of onednn from onemkl which did happen in the past. So, https://github.com/intel/ideep/blob/master/.gitmodules pytorch dependency refers to  https://github.com/01org/mkl-dnn.git which actually redirects to https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDNN

[1] https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pytorch-prerequisites-for-intel-gpus.html

And here are some snapshots from my setup. Take a look:
```
$ python setup.py develop
--   USE_BLAS              : 1
--     BLAS                : mkl
--     BLAS_HAS_SBGEMM     :
--   USE_LAPACK            : 1
--     LAPACK              : mkl
...
--   USE_MPS               : OFF
--   USE_MKL               : ON
--   USE_MKLDNN            : ON
--   USE_MKLDNN_ACL        : OFF
--   USE_MKLDNN_CBLAS      : OFF
...
--   Public Dependencies  : caffe2::mkl
--   Private Dependencies : Threads::Threads;pthreadpool;cpuinfo;pytorch_qnnpack;nnpack;XNNPACK;fbgemm;ittnotify;fp16;caffe2::openmp;tensorpipe;gloo;foxi_loader;rt;fmt::fmt-header-only;kineto;gcc_s;gcc;dl

$ dpkg -S /opt/intel/oneapi/mkl/
intel-oneapi-mkl-cluster-devel-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-core-devel-common-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-dft-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-core-common-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-include-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-classic-include-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-classic-include-common-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-data-fitting-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-stats-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-rng-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-vm-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-devel-common-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-sparse-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-devel-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-core-devel-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-lapack-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-sycl-blas-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-core-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-cluster-devel-common-2025.0, intel-oneapi-mkl-cluster-2025.0: /opt/intel/oneapi/mkl

$ ls /opt/intel/oneapi/mkl/
2024.1  2025.0  latest

$ find /opt/ -iname "*mkl*"
### here goes a huge list of MKL includes, static and ashared libraries!
```

Reviewer 3: @ZhaoqiongZ please make sure to address this ^^

Author: Hi @dvrogozh , this step will not influence xpu, but if skip it, the cpu pytorch performance will be influenced. So we have to add it and it is also added in the pytorch readme installation part.

Reviewer: > this step will not influence xpu, but if skip it, the cpu pytorch performance will be influenced

You don't explain this in the comment before the install command. Instead comment reads "Install the required packages". For xpu they are not required at all as you just explained. Considering that this document is dedicated to XPU, that's confusing.

> So we have to add it

As I described in the example above I believe that I already have installed similar package which provide MKL dependency via `sudo apt install intel-for-pytorch-gpu-dev intel-pti-dev`. Why do I need to install same dependency again via different mechanism?

And, important, read thru my comment above - does pytorch really using mkl today?

Reviewer 2: @dvrogozh The compilation doesn't only compile binaries for XPU, but also compile for CPU. We don't need to make it that clear which one is for which. For users, they just need to get a combo binary working on both XPU and CPU.
The `conda install intel:mklxxxx` is the default compilation step for PyTorch. We need to follow it.

Author: Hi @svekars , we discussed internally, pls merge at this time.

Reviewer: I would like to emphasize, that I do not consider my comments addressed. And I preserve my vote on this PR: -1.

   # (optional) If using torch.compile with inductor/triton, install the matching version of triton
   # Run from the pytorch directory after cloning
   # For Intel GPU support, please explicitly `export USE_XPU=1` before running command.

>    make triton

Reviewer: You just highlighted that use must explicitly `export USE_XPU=1` and next line you don't do that. This confuses. Either it's not needed or you must actually add it:
```suggestion
   USE_XPU=1 make triton
```

   # If you would like to compile PyTorch with new C++ ABI enabled, then first run this command:
   export _GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI=1

   # pytorch build from source
   export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=${CONDA_PREFIX:-"$(dirname $(which conda))/../"}
   python setup.py develop
   cd ..

   # (optional) If using torchvison.
   # Get torchvision Code
   git clone https://github.com/pytorch/vision.git
   cd vision
   git checkout main # or specific version
   python setup.py develop
   cd ..

   # (optional) If using torchaudio.
   # Get torchaudio Code
   git clone https://github.com/pytorch/audio.git
   cd audio
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   git checkout main # or specific version
   git submodule sync
   git submodule update --init --recursive
   python setup.py develop
   cd ..

Check for Intel GPU
-------------------

> **Note**\ : Make sure the environment is properly set up by following `Environment Set up Session <#set-up-environment>`_ before running the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**\ : Make sure the environment is properly set up by following `Environment Set up <#set-up-environment>`_ before running the code.
```

To check if your Intel GPU is available, you would typically use the following code:

.. code-block::

   import torch
   torch.xpu.is_available()  # torch.xpu is the API for Intel GPU support

> If the output is ``False``\ , please ensure that you have Intel GPU in your system and correctly follow the `PyTorch Installation Prerequisites for Intel GPUs <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pytorch-prerequisites-for-intel-gpus.html>`_ and the pytorch compilation is correctly finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the output is ``False``, please ensure that you have Intel GPU in your system and correctly follow the `PyTorch Installation Prerequisites for Intel GPUs <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pytorch-prerequisites-for-intel-gpus.html>`_ and check that the pytorch compilation is correctly finished.
```

Minimum Code Change
-------------------

> If you are migrating code from ``cuda``\ , you would change references from ``cuda`` to ``xpu``\ :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are migrating code from ``cuda``, you would change references from ``cuda`` to ``xpu``:
```

For example:

.. code-block::

   # CUDA CODE
   tensor = torch.tensor([1.0, 2.0]).to("cuda")

   # CODE for Intel GPU
   tensor = torch.tensor([1.0, 2.0]).to("xpu")

The following points outline the support and limitations for PyTorch with Intel GPU:

#. Both Training and inference workflows are supported.
#. Both eager mode and ``torch.compile`` is supported.
#. Data types such as FP32, BF16, FP16, and Automatic Mixed Precision (AMP) are all supported.

> #. Models that depend on third-party components, will not be supported until PyTorch v2.5 or later.

Reviewer: * Autocast was not supported last I tried. Is it now?
* Memory pinning not supported. https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/126491
* Memory operations under torch.xpu not supported. https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/127929

Author: autocast is now supported, but for train with GradScaler in FP16, there are still 2 ops under implemented.

Reviewer: > autocast is now supported

Good to know. I need to give it a try.

       transform=transform,
       download=DOWNLOAD,
   )
   train_loader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(dataset=train_dataset, batch_size=128)

   model = torchvision.models.resnet50()
   criterion = torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
   optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(model.parameters(), lr=LR, momentum=0.9)
   scaler = torch.amp.GradScaler(dtype=torch.float16, enabled=use_amp)

   model.train()
   ######################## code changes #######################
   model = model.to("xpu")
   criterion = criterion.to("xpu")
   ######################## code changes #######################

   for batch_idx, (data, target) in enumerate(train_loader):
       ########## code changes ##########
       data = data.to("xpu")
       target = target.to("xpu")
       ########## code changes ##########
       # set dtype=torch.bfloat16 for BF16
       with torch.autocast(device_type="xpu", dtype=torch.float16, enabled=use_amp):
           output = model(data)
           loss = criterion(output, target)
       scaler.scale(loss).backward()
       scaler.step(optimizer)
       scaler.update()
       optimizer.zero_grad() # set_to_none=True here can modestly improve performance
       print(batch_idx)

>    torch.save(

Reviewer: Confusing. Either add empty line or fix indent.

Author: fixed

Pytorch 2.4: Getting Started on Intel GPU
=========================================

The support for Intel GPUs is released alongside PyTorch v2.4.

This release only supports build from source for Intel GPUs.

Hardware Prerequiste
--------------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Supported Hardware
     - Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series

>      - Intel® Core™ Ultra Processors

Reviewer 4: Are Ultra Processors CPU-only?

Author: remove Ultra Processors since we don't support in this release

   * - Supported OS
     - Linux

>      - Linux

Reviewer 4: Two Linux?

Author: one for pvc, one for mtl.
sync with River, not mention mtl for this release, I will remove it
